
# Medical Insurance Cost Predictor


## Overview

This project aims to predict medical insurance costs using machine learning techniques. By leveraging a dataset containing information such as age, gender, BMI, number of children, smoker status, and region, we utilize linear regression to estimate the insurance costs for individuals.

## Dataset

The dataset used for this project contains anonymized information about insured individuals, including:

- Age
- Gender
- Body Mass Index (BMI)
- Number of Children
- Smoker Status
- Region

## Requirements

- Python 3.0
- Jupyter Notebook
- pandas
- numpy
- scikit-learn

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/pranavdarak/Medical-Insurance-Cost-Predictor.git
```

2. Install the required dependencies
   
4. Run the Jupyter Notebook:

```bash
jupyter notebook Medical_Insurance_Cost_Predictor.py
```

## Usage

1. Open the Jupyter Notebook `Medical_Insurance_Cost_Predictor.py`.
2. Follow the instructions provided in the notebook to train the linear regression model and make predictions.
3. Experiment with different parameters and features to improve the model's accuracy.

## Results

After training the model, we achieved a R squared value :  0.7447 of Cost . The predictions generated by the model can assist insurance companies and individuals in estimating medical insurance costs accurately.


This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
```

Replace the placeholders like `yourimageurl.com`, `yourusername`, `insert your evaluation metric`, and `insert your value` with the relevant information for your project. This README provides a clear outline of your project, its purpose, how to use it, and how to contribute to it.
